README.md, before:

[![Clojars Project](https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/io.github.fourteatoo/familee.svg?include_prereleases)](https://clojars.org/io.github.fourteatoo/familee)
[![cljdoc badge](https://cljdoc.org/badge/io.github.fourteatoo/familee)](https://cljdoc.org/d/io.github.fourteatoo/familee)
[![CircleCI](https://dl.circleci.com/status-badge/img/gh/fourteatoo/familee/tree/main.svg?style=svg)](https://dl.circleci.com/status-badge/redirect/gh/fourteatoo/familee/tree/main)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/fourteatoo/familee/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/fourteatoo/familee)

# familee

Read, save and restore Google Family Link restrictions.

Provided you use Firefox, this program can access your Google Family
Link configuration and modify it, if necessary.  Currently it can only
change the app permissions, which is all I personally need.

It takes inspiration from a smiliar Python project
<https://github.com/tducret/familylink>.


## Installation

Compile

    $ lein uberjar

then copy the jar file somewhere you can find again

    $ cp target/uberjar/familee-<version>-standalone.jar some/where/else

## Usage

    $ java -jar target/uberjar/familee-<version>-standalone.jar -h
	
will get you an usage string.  It is straightforward.

    $ java -jar target/familee-<version>-standalone.jar -s file.edn
	
dumps in `file.edn` your current app restrictions, for each supervised
user in your family nucleus.

You can then edit `file.edn` and apply the changes with

    $ java -jar target/familee-<version>-standalone.jar -r file.edn

You can also visualize the differences between your stored
configuration and the one active in the cloud

    $ java -jar target/familee-<version>-standalone.jar -d file.edn

which will result in something like:

```
User Junior

|                      :title |                       :package |    :active |  :stored |
|-----------------------------+--------------------------------+------------+----------|
| Spotify: Music and Podcasts |              com.spotify.music | :unlimited | :allowed |
|               Google Photos | com.google.android.apps.photos |   :allowed |       10 |
```

## Options

  -s, --save FILE       download current app restrictions status and save it into FILE
  -r, --restore FILE    restore app restrictions if different from FILE
  -d, --diff FILE       compare current restrictions with those in FILE
  -p, --print           print family and apps state
  -n, --dry-run         do not apply changes, just print them
  -m, --monitor FILE    keep enforcing the restrictions"]
  -c, --config FILE     confirguration file
  -v, --verbose         increase logging verbosity
  -h, --help            display program usage


## Configuration

There are a couple of tunable you can tweak in the `~/.familee`
configuration file.  An example:

```clojure
{:monitor-interval 5
 :cookies-ttl 10
 :logging {:level "info" :console true}}
```

These are the defaults; the file doesn't even need to exist.  The
`:monitor-interval` is for the `-m` command line option; it tells how
long (in minutes) to wait between updates.  The `:cookies-ttl` is how
long (in seconds) the cookies are to be considered valid before
reading them again from disc.  The `:logging` part is to configure the
logger.  Again, for the monitor option.  By default the minimum level
is `INFO` and the output is on the console.  Have a look at
https://github.com/pyr/unilog for more information.


## Restrictions File

The EDN file saved by the program has the following structure:

```clojure
;; user id
{"12345678901234567890"
 {:name "Junior",                       ; user name
  ;; list of restricted applications
  :apps
  {"com.google.android.youtube"
   ;; Youtube for 20 minutes a day
   {:title "YouTube", :limit 20},
   "com.zeptolab.ctr.ads"
   ;; 15 minutes a day
   {:title "Cut the Rope", :limit 15},
   "com.mobisystems.office"
   {:title "MobiOffice: Word, Sheets, PDF", :limit :allowed},
   "com.gameloft.android.GloftDMKF"
   ;; not allowed at all, ever
   {:title "Disney M. K.", :limit :blocked},
   "com.duolingo"
   ;; unlimited use 24/7 regardless the daily screen time
   {:title "Duolinguo: Language Lessons", :limit :unlimited},
   "com.makewonder.wonder"
   {:title "Wonder for Dash & Dot Robots", :limit :allowed},
   "org.fdroid.fdroid"
   ;; zero minutes a day
   {:title "F-Droid", :limit 0},
   ;; allowed for as long as the daily screen time
   "com.google.android.apps.photos"
   {:title "Google Photos", :limit :allowed},
...
```

The `:limit` is the only thing that can be edited (and uploaded).
Things like the user `:name` and application `:title` are there only
for your convenience.  And no, I don't know the difference between 0
minutes a day and `:blocked`.

You don't need to keep track of all your apps; you can upload just a
subset.  The rest will be left untouched.

The following changes just the YouTube app, limiting it to 10 minutes
a day:

```clojure
{"12345678901234567890" {:apps {"com.google.android.youtube" {:limit 10}}}}
```

all the other apps will not be affected.



### Temporary restrictions

Limits can be imposed temporarily.  For example:

```clojure
;; user id
{"12345678901234567890"
 {:name "Junior",                       ; user name
  :apps
  {"com.google.android.youtube"
   ;; Youtube for 20 minutes a day
   {:title "YouTube", :limit 20 :temporary {:limit 60 :until "2025-07-31"}},
```

In the snipped above, YouTube is normally limited to 20 minutes a day
but, for the time being, one hour a day until the end of the summer
holidays.  In August the usual 20 minutes a day will be applied.  The
Family Link service doesn't provide this feature.  The program has to
run in monitor mode for this to work as expected.  See the `-m`
option.


## Misc

If you wish you can peek inside the raw configuration with the `-p`
option.

```
$ java -jar target/uberjar/familee-0.1.0-SNAPSHOT-standalone.jar -p
```
=>
```clojure
{"12345678901234567890"
 {:role "member",
  :profile
  {:display-name "Junior",
   :profile-image-url
   "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a-/SOMESTUFFHERE",
   :email "junior@gmail.com",
   :family-name "Smith",
   :given-name "Junior",
   :standard-gender "male",
   :birthday {:day 4, :month 2, :year 2020},
   :default-profile-image-url
   "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a/default-user"},
  :state "regular",
  :member-supervision-info
  {:is-supervised-member true, :is-guardian-linked-account false},
  :member-attributes
  {:has-griffin-policy true,
   :remove-from-family-after-opt-out-supervision true,
   :show-parental-password-reset true},
  :ui-customizations
  {:settings-group
   ["tabletSettingGroup"
    "playSettingGroup"
    "websitePermissionSettingGroup"
    "searchSettingGroup"
    "youtubeParentToolsSettingGroup"
    "a4kSettingGroup"
    "appsSettingGroup"
    "locationSettingGroup"
    "nativeKidEditSettingGroup"
    "googlePhotosSettingGroup"
    "locationConsentSettingGroup"
    "appActivitySettingGroup"
    "googleActivitySettingGroup"
    "unsupervisedSignInSettingGroup"
    "thirdPartySettingGroup"
    "resetScreenTimeLimitsGroup"
    "privacySettingGroup"],
   :privacy-policy-url "https://policies.google.com/privacy",
   :supervised-user-type "account"},
  :apps
  [{:iap-support-status "iapSupported",
    :supervision-setting
    {:hidden false,
     :hidden-set-explicitly true,
     :always-allowed-app-info
     {:always-allowed-state "alwaysAllowedStateEnabled"}},
    :enforced-enabled-status "statusUnknown",
    :supervision-capabilities
    ["capabilityAlwaysAllowApp"
     "capabilityBlock"
     "capabilityUsageLimit"],
    :app-source "googlePlay",
    :icon-url
    "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/48wwD4kfFSStoxwuwCIu6RdM2IeZmZKfb1ZeQkga0qEf1JKsiD-hK3Qf8qvxHL09lQ",
    :title "Amazon Kindle",
    :install-time-millis "1733832804041",
    :ad-support-status "adsSupported",
    :device-ids ["blahblahblah"],
    :package-name "com.amazon.kindle"}
   {:iap-support-status "iapSupported",
    :supervision-setting
    {:hidden false,
     :hidden-set-explicitly true,
     :usage-limit {:daily-usage-limit-mins 15, :enabled true}},
    :enforced-enabled-status "statusUnknown",
...
```

which dumps on your screen a lot of info for your own curiosity.


## The Library

The simple jar (non-standalone) can be used as a library and included
in your own project.  All the authentication aspects are handled
automatically for you.  Consider, though, that the code looks for your
access tokens in your default Firefox cookies.  At the moment no other
browser is supported.


With Leiningen:

```clojure
[io.github.fourteatoo/familee "LATEST"]
```
Or whatever version you find on Clojars.

The namaspace you want to use is

```clojure
(require '[fourteatoo.familee.api :as fam])
```

To see your family composition you just

```clojure
(fam/get-family-members)
```

to see the supervised members only

```clojure
(fam/get-supervised-members)
````

to get the apps restrictions

```clojure
(fam/get-apps-usage "your kid's user id")
```

You need the ID, not the name.  You find the user id in the maps
returned by `fam/get-family-members` or `fam/get-supervised-members`.

For instance, for all of your kids you would

```clojure
(map (comp fam/get-apps-usage :user-id)
     (fam/get-supervised-members))
```

to change an application limit

```clojure
(fam/update-restrictions user-id package limit)
```

You find the `user-id` inside the map returned by
`fam/get-supervised-members`.  The `package` can be found in the maps
returned by `fam/get-apps-usage`.  The limit can be any of:
`:allowed`, `:unlimited`, `:blocked` or an integer which is the time
in minutes.

Examples:

```clojure
;; limit Spotify by the daily screen time
(fam/update-restrictions "87238265899123764" "com.spotify.music" :allowed)
;; allow the calculator any time of the day
(fam/update-restrictions "48723826589912376" "com.google.android.calculator" :unlimited)
;; limit YouTube
(fam/update-restrictions "64872382658991237" "com.google.android.youtube" 15)
;; block TikTok
(fam/update-restrictions "64872382658991237" "com.zhiliaoapp.musically" :blocked)
```


### Bugs

Expected.


## License

Copyright © 2025 Walter C. Pelissero

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at
http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary
Licenses when the conditions for such availability set forth in the Eclipse
Public License, v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version, with the GNU Classpath Exception which is available
at https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.

Commit message:

Add :firefox-profile-directory and document the :firefox tunables

README.md, after:

[![Clojars Project](https://img.shields.io/clojars/v/io.github.fourteatoo/familee.svg?include_prereleases)](https://clojars.org/io.github.fourteatoo/familee)
[![cljdoc badge](https://cljdoc.org/badge/io.github.fourteatoo/familee)](https://cljdoc.org/d/io.github.fourteatoo/familee)
[![CircleCI](https://dl.circleci.com/status-badge/img/gh/fourteatoo/familee/tree/main.svg?style=svg)](https://dl.circleci.com/status-badge/redirect/gh/fourteatoo/familee/tree/main)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/fourteatoo/familee/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/fourteatoo/familee)

# familee

Read, save and restore Google Family Link restrictions.

Provided you use Firefox, this program can access your Google Family
Link configuration and modify it, if necessary.  Currently it can only
change the app permissions, which is all I personally need.

It takes inspiration from a smiliar Python project
<https://github.com/tducret/familylink>.


## Installation

Compile

    $ lein uberjar

then copy the jar file somewhere you can find again

    $ cp target/uberjar/familee-<version>-standalone.jar some/where/else

## Usage

    $ java -jar target/uberjar/familee-<version>-standalone.jar -h
	
will get you an usage string.  It is straightforward.

    $ java -jar target/familee-<version>-standalone.jar -s file.edn
	
dumps in `file.edn` your current app restrictions, for each supervised
user in your family nucleus.

You can then edit `file.edn` and apply the changes with

    $ java -jar target/familee-<version>-standalone.jar -r file.edn

You can also visualize the differences between your stored
configuration and the one active in the cloud

    $ java -jar target/familee-<version>-standalone.jar -d file.edn

which will result in something like:

```
User Junior

|                      :title |                       :package |    :active |  :stored |
|-----------------------------+--------------------------------+------------+----------|
| Spotify: Music and Podcasts |              com.spotify.music | :unlimited | :allowed |
|               Google Photos | com.google.android.apps.photos |   :allowed |       10 |
```

## Options

  -s, --save FILE       download current app restrictions status and save it into FILE
  -r, --restore FILE    restore app restrictions if different from FILE
  -d, --diff FILE       compare current restrictions with those in FILE
  -p, --print           print family and apps state
  -n, --dry-run         do not apply changes, just print them
  -m, --monitor FILE    keep enforcing the restrictions"]
  -c, --config FILE     confirguration file
  -v, --verbose         increase logging verbosity
  -h, --help            display program usage


## Configuration

There are a couple of tunable you can tweak in the `~/.familee`
configuration file.  An example:

```clojure
{:monitor-interval 5
 :cookies-ttl 10
 :logging {:level "info" :console true}}
```

These are the defaults; the file doesn't even need to exist.  The
`:monitor-interval` is for the `-m` command line option; it tells how
long (in minutes) to wait between updates.  The `:cookies-ttl` is how
long (in seconds) the cookies are to be considered valid before
reading them again from disc.  The `:logging` part is to configure the
logger.  Again, for the monitor option.  By default the minimum level
is `INFO` and the output is on the console.  Have a look at
https://github.com/pyr/unilog for more information.

If, for instance, the program cannot figure out correctly your Firefox
installation you may want to add

```clojure
  :firefox-directory "/home/you/mysandbox/.mozilla/firefox"
  :firefox-profile-directory "hgjs4423u9.default-release-5"
```

The `:firefox-directory` should be an absolute pathname and it
defaults to `$HOME/.mozilla/firefox`.  The
`:firefox-profile-directory` has to be relative to the Firefox
directory.  Type `about:profiles` in your Firefox URL to figure out
which one is yours.



## Restrictions File

The EDN file saved by the program has the following structure:

```clojure
;; user id
{"12345678901234567890"
 {:name "Junior",                       ; user name
  ;; list of restricted applications
  :apps
  {"com.google.android.youtube"
   ;; Youtube for 20 minutes a day
   {:title "YouTube", :limit 20},
   "com.zeptolab.ctr.ads"
   ;; 15 minutes a day
   {:title "Cut the Rope", :limit 15},
   "com.mobisystems.office"
   {:title "MobiOffice: Word, Sheets, PDF", :limit :allowed},
   "com.gameloft.android.GloftDMKF"
   ;; not allowed at all, ever
   {:title "Disney M. K.", :limit :blocked},
   "com.duolingo"
   ;; unlimited use 24/7 regardless the daily screen time
   {:title "Duolinguo: Language Lessons", :limit :unlimited},
   "com.makewonder.wonder"
   {:title "Wonder for Dash & Dot Robots", :limit :allowed},
   "org.fdroid.fdroid"
   ;; zero minutes a day
   {:title "F-Droid", :limit 0},
   ;; allowed for as long as the daily screen time
   "com.google.android.apps.photos"
   {:title "Google Photos", :limit :allowed},
...
```

The `:limit` is the only thing that can be edited (and uploaded).
Things like the user `:name` and application `:title` are there only
for your convenience.  And no, I don't know the difference between 0
minutes a day and `:blocked`.

You don't need to keep track of all your apps; you can upload just a
subset.  The rest will be left untouched.

The following changes just the YouTube app, limiting it to 10 minutes
a day:

```clojure
{"12345678901234567890" {:apps {"com.google.android.youtube" {:limit 10}}}}
```

all the other apps will not be affected.



### Temporary restrictions

Limits can be imposed temporarily.  For example:

```clojure
;; user id
{"12345678901234567890"
 {:name "Junior",                       ; user name
  :apps
  {"com.google.android.youtube"
   ;; Youtube for 20 minutes a day
   {:title "YouTube", :limit 20 :temporary {:limit 60 :until "2025-07-31"}},
```

In the snipped above, YouTube is normally limited to 20 minutes a day
but, for the time being, one hour a day until the end of the summer
holidays.  In August the usual 20 minutes a day will be applied.  The
Family Link service doesn't provide this feature.  The program has to
run in monitor mode for this to work as expected.  See the `-m`
option.


## Misc

If you wish you can peek inside the raw configuration with the `-p`
option.

```
$ java -jar target/uberjar/familee-0.1.0-SNAPSHOT-standalone.jar -p
```
=>
```clojure
{"12345678901234567890"
 {:role "member",
  :profile
  {:display-name "Junior",
   :profile-image-url
   "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a-/SOMESTUFFHERE",
   :email "junior@gmail.com",
   :family-name "Smith",
   :given-name "Junior",
   :standard-gender "male",
   :birthday {:day 4, :month 2, :year 2020},
   :default-profile-image-url
   "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a/default-user"},
  :state "regular",
  :member-supervision-info
  {:is-supervised-member true, :is-guardian-linked-account false},
  :member-attributes
  {:has-griffin-policy true,
   :remove-from-family-after-opt-out-supervision true,
   :show-parental-password-reset true},
  :ui-customizations
  {:settings-group
   ["tabletSettingGroup"
    "playSettingGroup"
    "websitePermissionSettingGroup"
    "searchSettingGroup"
    "youtubeParentToolsSettingGroup"
    "a4kSettingGroup"
    "appsSettingGroup"
    "locationSettingGroup"
    "nativeKidEditSettingGroup"
    "googlePhotosSettingGroup"
    "locationConsentSettingGroup"
    "appActivitySettingGroup"
    "googleActivitySettingGroup"
    "unsupervisedSignInSettingGroup"
    "thirdPartySettingGroup"
    "resetScreenTimeLimitsGroup"
    "privacySettingGroup"],
   :privacy-policy-url "https://policies.google.com/privacy",
   :supervised-user-type "account"},
  :apps
  [{:iap-support-status "iapSupported",
    :supervision-setting
    {:hidden false,
     :hidden-set-explicitly true,
     :always-allowed-app-info
     {:always-allowed-state "alwaysAllowedStateEnabled"}},
    :enforced-enabled-status "statusUnknown",
    :supervision-capabilities
    ["capabilityAlwaysAllowApp"
     "capabilityBlock"
     "capabilityUsageLimit"],
    :app-source "googlePlay",
    :icon-url
    "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/48wwD4kfFSStoxwuwCIu6RdM2IeZmZKfb1ZeQkga0qEf1JKsiD-hK3Qf8qvxHL09lQ",
    :title "Amazon Kindle",
    :install-time-millis "1733832804041",
    :ad-support-status "adsSupported",
    :device-ids ["blahblahblah"],
    :package-name "com.amazon.kindle"}
   {:iap-support-status "iapSupported",
    :supervision-setting
    {:hidden false,
     :hidden-set-explicitly true,
     :usage-limit {:daily-usage-limit-mins 15, :enabled true}},
    :enforced-enabled-status "statusUnknown",
...
```

which dumps on your screen a lot of info for your own curiosity.


## The Library

The simple jar (non-standalone) can be used as a library and included
in your own project.  All the authentication aspects are handled
automatically for you.  Consider, though, that the code looks for your
access tokens in your default Firefox cookies.  At the moment no other
browser is supported.


With Leiningen:

```clojure
[io.github.fourteatoo/familee "LATEST"]
```
Or whatever version you find on Clojars.

The namaspace you want to use is

```clojure
(require '[fourteatoo.familee.api :as fam])
```

To see your family composition you just

```clojure
(fam/get-family-members)
```

to see the supervised members only

```clojure
(fam/get-supervised-members)
````

to get the apps restrictions

```clojure
(fam/get-apps-usage "your kid's user id")
```

You need the ID, not the name.  You find the user id in the maps
returned by `fam/get-family-members` or `fam/get-supervised-members`.

For instance, for all of your kids you would

```clojure
(map (comp fam/get-apps-usage :user-id)
     (fam/get-supervised-members))
```

to change an application limit

```clojure
(fam/update-restrictions user-id package limit)
```

You find the `user-id` inside the map returned by
`fam/get-supervised-members`.  The `package` can be found in the maps
returned by `fam/get-apps-usage`.  The limit can be any of:
`:allowed`, `:unlimited`, `:blocked` or an integer which is the time
in minutes.

Examples:

```clojure
;; limit Spotify by the daily screen time
(fam/update-restrictions "87238265899123764" "com.spotify.music" :allowed)
;; allow the calculator any time of the day
(fam/update-restrictions "48723826589912376" "com.google.android.calculator" :unlimited)
;; limit YouTube
(fam/update-restrictions "64872382658991237" "com.google.android.youtube" 15)
;; block TikTok
(fam/update-restrictions "64872382658991237" "com.zhiliaoapp.musically" :blocked)
```


### Bugs

Expected.


## License

Copyright © 2025 Walter C. Pelissero

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
terms of the Eclipse Public License 2.0 which is available at
http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0.

This Source Code may also be made available under the following Secondary
Licenses when the conditions for such availability set forth in the Eclipse
Public License, v. 2.0 are satisfied: GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version, with the GNU Classpath Exception which is available
at https://www.gnu.org/software/classpath/license.html.
